umbrella chart with ingress and storage example (#93)
openebs/monitoring: docs/extends-stack-with-umbrella-chart.md

# Extending the monitoring stack

### Prerequisite

- Helm 3+ installed
- OpenEBS installed

> #What is a umbrella chart and why use it ?

Reviewer: Add a space after `#`.

An umbrella chart is a way of encapsulate multiple complex charts with one chart.

> >Many of the charts in the CNCF Artifact Hub are "building blocks" for creating more advanced applications. But charts may be used to create instances of large-scale applications. In such cases, a single umbrella chart may have multiple subcharts, each of which functions as a piece of the whole.

Reviewer: Do we want the formatting to be like this or as a list?

Author: it's a "quote"

>The current best practice for composing a complex application from discrete parts is to create a top-level umbrella chart that exposes the global configurations, and then use the charts/ subdirectory to embed each of the components.   
Source: https://helm.sh/docs/howto/charts_tips_and_tricks/#complex-charts-with-many-dependencies 

Using an umbrella chart will allow you customize OpenEBS monitoring stack settings without modifying that chart content.  It's also easier to update a dependency.

To create your our umbrella chart, you will have a create a folder structure like this.

```
📦umbrella
┣ 📜Chart.yaml
┗ 📜values.yaml
```

| File               | Description                                                                      |
| ------             | ------                                                                           |
| Chart.yaml         | Contains your chart identification with a dependency to OpenEBS monitoring stack |
| values.yaml        | Contains all your settings values                                                |

> #Umbrella chart with ingress and storage enabled

Reviewer: Add a space after `#`.

Here a example that will enable ingress and storage for OpenEBS monitoring stack.

In the file **Chart.yaml**, you will enter your umbrella chart information with a dependency to OpenEBS monitoring stack.  The property name : `condition` is optional.  That property will allow you to install that dependency or not depending of the value in `values.yaml`. 

> ####Chart.yaml

Reviewer: Add a space after `#`.

````yaml
apiVersion: v2
name: monitoring-stack
description: Umbrella Chart for OpenEBS monitoring stack
icon: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/20769039?s=200&v=4
type: application
version: 0.1.1
appVersion: 1.0.0
dependencies:
  - name: openebs-monitoring
    version: 0.4.8
    repository: "https://openebs.github.io/monitoring/"
    condition: openebs-monitoring.install
````

In the file **values.yaml**, you will define your configuration for the monitoring stack.  

If you defined a **dependency condition** in **Chart.yaml**, you will have to define the value in that condition.  In this example, the condition name is `openebs-monitoring.install`.  

if you provide only the condition value, you will deploy OpenEBS monitoring stack with the default values provided in there chart.

> ####value.yaml (with default values)

Reviewer: Add a space after `#`.

````yaml
openebs-monitoring:
  install: true
````

> ####value.yaml (with ingress and storage)

Reviewer: Add a space after `#`.

> To use storage for the monitoring stack, you will have to create the storage class before using it.  In this example, I use a storage class named : `sc-metrics`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use storage for the monitoring stack, you will have to create the storage class before using it.  In the following example, I use a storage class named: `sc-metrics` which already exists in my cluster.
```

> For ingress, I used a domain name : `dev.dynamic.cluster109.local`

Reviewer: Can we change the language here from I to a more generalised context?

Author: no trouble at all.  english is not my native language, so I accept anything better than what I wrote :)

> For ingress, I used a domain name : `dev.dynamic.cluster109.local`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similarly you can also customize other parameters. For instance, if domain name has to be used to access the user interfaces, the `ingress` section needs to be updated. In the following example I use the value: `dev.dynamic.cluster109.local`. 
```

              resources:
                requests:
                  storage: 8Gi

# GRAFANA SECTION
    grafana:
      ## In order to render HTML and Javascript in a text panel without being sanitized
      ## enable the `disable_sanitize_html` settings in Grafana ini file
      grafana.ini:
        ## If you have Ingress, you need to change the root_url to match ingress path
        server:
          root_url: http://localhost:3000/grafana

      ## Enable persistence using Persistent Volume Claims
      ## ref: http://kubernetes.io/docs/user-guide/persistent-volumes/
      ##
      persistence:
        type: pvc
        enabled: true
        storageClassName: sc-metrics
        accessModes:
          - ReadWriteOnce
        size: 10Gi

      ingress:
        ## If true, Grafana Ingress will be created
        ##
        enabled: true

        annotations:
          nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect: "false"
          nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /$2
        path: /grafana(/|$)(.*)
        hosts:
          - dev.dynamic.cluster109.local

# NDP SECTION
  ## Configuration for node-problem-detector subchart
  node-problem-detector:
    install: true
````

> #How to deploy the umbrella chart

Reviewer: Add a space after `#`.

### Download the dependencies
The first step will be to download the dependencies by running this command in a terminal in the umbrella folder.     

````console
helm dep build
````

If you had already ran that command and you changed the dependencies in Chart.yaml, you will have to download the new dependencies by running this command.

````console
helm dep up
````

You will obtain that folder structure

```
📦umbrella
 ┣ 📂charts
 ┃ ┗ 📜openebs-monitoring-0.4.8.tgz
 ┣ 📂templates
 ┣ 📜Chart.lock
 ┣ 📜Chart.yaml
 ┗ 📜values.yaml
```

### Install the chart

> ####From the umbrella folder

Reviewer: Add a space after `#`.

In a terminal in the umbrella folder run this command :

```console
helm install [RELEASE_NAME] . -n  [NAMESPACE] --create-namespace
```

ex :
````console
helm install monitoring . -n monitoring --create-namespace
````

> ####From a helm chart repository

Reviewer: Add a space after `#`.
